[id='network-optimization']
= Network optimization
include::modules/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: networking

toc::[]


The OpenShift SDN uses Open vSwitch, Virtual Extensible LAN (VXLAN) tunnels,
OpenFlow rules, and iptables. This network can be tuned by using jumbo frames,
network interface cards (NIC) offloads, multi-queue, and ethtool settings.

VXLAN provides benefits over VLANs, such as an increase in networks from 4096 to
over 16 million, and layer 2 connectivity across physical networks. This allows
for all Pods behind a service to communicate with each other, even if they are
running on different systems.

VXLAN encapsulates all tunneled traffic in user datagram protocol (UDP) packets.
However, this leads to increased CPU utilization. Both these outer- and
inner-packets are subject to normal checksumming rules to guarantee data has not
been corrupted during transit. Depending on CPU performance, this additional
processing overhead can cause a reduction in throughput and increased latency
when compared to traditional, non-overlay networks.

Cloud, VM, and bare metal CPU performance can be capable of handling much more
than one Gbps network throughput. When using higher bandwidth links such as 10
or 40 Gbps, reduced performance can occur. This is a known issue in VXLAN-based
environments and is not specific to containers or {product-title}. Any network
that relies on VXLAN tunnels performs similarly because of the VXLAN
implementation.

If you are looking to push beyond one Gbps, you can:

* Evaluate network plug-ins that implement different routing techniques, such as
border gateway protocol (BGP).
* Use VXLAN-offload capable network adapters. VXLAN-offload moves the packet
checksum calculation and associated CPU overhead off of the system CPU and onto
dedicated hardware on the network adapter. This frees up CPU cycles for use by
Pods and applications, and allows users to utilize the full bandwidth of their
network infrastructure.

VXLAN-offload does not reduce latency. However, CPU utilization is reduced even
in latency tests.

include::modules/configuring-network-subnets.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/optimizing-the-MTU-for-your-network.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
